========
Netbeans
========

This section tells you how to set-up Netbeans for debugging with Xdebug.


Websites
--------

- Go to *Preferences > PHP*

- Adjust the options for debugging:

  - Port
	This is the post used by XDebug to send information to the IDE [default: 9000]
	
  - Session Id
	This is the IDE Key used to define this session
	
- Visit * File > Project properties * and make sure the *Run configuration* tab is 
  setup properly with the correct settings for you environment. i.e url and index file. 
  You can use *Run > Run Project* to check this.

- Click on *Debug > Debug Project*

If you configured NetBeans to stop on the first line, it should now switch
environments, show debugging panes and mark the first line of your index file
in green.


Command line scripts
--------------------

To debug command line scripts you need to take just a few extra steps.

- Adjust your php.ini to be compatible with these settings, some of these are the
  default settings used by Xdebug: (they are fully compatible with website testing 
  above):: 
	
	xdebug.mode=debug
	xdebug.remote_host=localhost ; default value
	xdebug.remote_port=9000 ; default value

- Adjust your NetBeans configuration to match this port and idekey in the
  *Preferences > PHP* menu.

- Now setup your project to run as a command line script instead of a website: 

  - Go to *File > Project Properties*

  - Select *Run configuration*

  - Choose *Run as:* to be "Script"

- Click on *Debug > Debug Project*

You should now see it running inside the output panel or stopped in the first
line if that option was selected. Inside the *Run configuration* you may also 
choose which php runtime to use, so you can debug with different versions of
PHP.


Advanced Debugging in NetBeans
------------------------------

If you want to debug you PHPunit tests or files outside your project inside
netbeans, check this post: `Debugging PHPUnit Tests in NetBeans with XDebug`_ 

.. _Debugging PHPUnit Tests in NetBeans with XDebug: http://blog.rafaeldohms.com.br/2011/05/13/debugging-phpunit-tests-in-netbeans-with-xdebug
